---
Title:
README for Project on the Effect of Licorice Gargling on Postoperative Sore Throat and Cough

Authors:
Kathrine Brun, Tuva Norderud Jensen, Eirik Røys

Installation:
You need the following tools and libraries to run the analysis in the project: 
- R: Version 4.4.1.
- RStudio
- R libraries:tidyverse, tidyr, here, lubridate, dplyr, skimr, ggplot2, patchwork, ggcorrplot and styler.

How to install the packages:
install.packages(c("tidyverse", "tidyr","here", "lubridate", "dplyr","skimr", "ggplot2", "patchwork", "ggcorrplot", "styler"))

License
The project is licensed under the MIT license. 

Project Description:
This project involves data from a study of 236 patients undergoing elective thoracic surgery, requiring the use of a double-lumen endotracheal tube. The study investigates whether gargling with licorice before anesthesia can prevent postoperative sore throat and coughing in these patients

Folder Contents:
1. DATA:
Contains three datasets: exam_dataset.txt, exan_joindata.txt, and clean_data.csv.
exam_dataset.txt and exan_joindata.txt are raw datasets from the project.
clean_data.csv is the cleaned and processed version (with 24 variables) derived from the raw data after tidying and wrangling.
clean_data.csv includes details on gender, age, BMI, physical status, Mallampati score, smoking status, preoperative pain, surgery size, treatment intervention, and three outcomes (cough, sore throat, and pain when swallowing) at various time points.

2. Scripts:
Contains two R scripts: Script_tidy.R and Script_analyze.R.
Script_tidy.R: Combines and performs tidying and wrangling of the two raw datasets, generating the cleaned dataset clean_data.csv.
Script_analyze.R: Explores the relationships between several variables in clean_data.csv through plotting and statistical analysis.

3. Results:
Contains an R Markdown file, Reports.Rmd, which summarizes the findings and results from the analyses conducted in the scripts.

4. Figures:
Contains the plots generated during the analysis in Script_analyze.R.

5. Exam:
Contains two markdown files: exam_checklist.md and exam_descr.md, which describe the tasks performed to produce the scripts and results.

6. Documentation and Tools:
Contains the project documentation files such as the MIT license, .Rhistory, and .gitignore files. 






